Story Recapped here. Today, I'm
going to explain a drama, fantasy,
and mystery film called "The Illusionist."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
A young Eisenheim sits all dusty under
a table. He walks through the fields
and meets a traveling magician. The magician
immediately enchants him with his parlor tricks,
and Eisenheim's eyes sparkle in awe.
In his room, Eisenheim starts practicing
magic. The townsfolk judges him for being
different. A girl from royalty named Sophie is on
horseback the day she lays her eyes on Eisenheim.
She admires him not for his
magic but for the person he is.
They sit in the living room, and her caretakers
barge in, interrupting the moment they're having.
They're forbidden to interact with
one another because he is a peasant,
and she is from royal blood. However, the
distance makes the star-crossed lovers' hearts
grow fonder. At a secluded cave, they make a
promise to run away together and disappear.
One day, Eisenheim gives Sophie a
pendant in the shape of a heart.
Eisenheim meets Sophie at the hidden cave one
night. They hide within the shadows as guards
comes looking for her. Sophie asks him to
make them disappear. He tries to, but magic
fails them. They get separated that
night, never to see each other again.
15 years later. Eisenheim, the now renowned
magician, performs in Vienna. He borrows a
handkerchief from a woman. He puts it in a box
and returns it. He starts to handle an orange
expertly while explaining the concept of time.
He cuts it, removes its seed, and plants it in a
pot. The seed starts to grow into a fruit-bearing
tree before everyone's eyes. The handkerchief from
before appears on stage while two butterflies
carry it. The crowd showers him with applause
and standing ovations. Inspector Uhl is seen among
the audience, thoroughly enjoying the performance.
On the streets, unfortunate children approach
him. He gave them money using tricks and goes
on his way. He enters a cafe and talks to
his manager, Josef, about their earnings.
Inspector Uhl enters the theatre and examines
the stage, hoping to find out the tricks behind
Eisenheim's magic. Eisenheim sees him touching
his equipment and shouts for him to stop.
Uhl informs them that the crown prince will
be watching his performance later that night.
He analyzes Eisenheim's tricks and says
his secrets are safe in the hands of a
fellow magician. Eisenheim entertains
Uhl and even teaches him a trick.
Leopold, the crown prince, enters the theatre,
and the performance begins. Eisenheim asks the
audience what it means to die. He asks for a
volunteer, but the crowd is reluctant. Leopold
stands up and points to a woman beside him. She
steps onto the stage, and Eisenheim hears someone
call the woman Duchess von Teschen. The title that
Sophie carried. Shock is evident in Eisenheim’s
eyes as he realizes that this woman is the girl he
loves. He asks if she knows him. She assures him
that they haven't met before. His assistant helps
her wear a robe, and they gaze at each other.
He positions her, wears the hood over her
head, and instructs her to do odd things.
She bows to the mirror, but the image in the
mirror doesn’t bow back. Another person wearing
a robe appears in the mirror and attacks the woman
with a blade. Eisenheim directs a cloud of smoke;
it passes through Sophie, making her
briefly faint. The show ends with applause.
Eisenheim enters the room where the crown prince
and Sophie stay in. They greet one another,
and Leopold asks if he has supernatural powers.
He then tries to deduce the tricks behind
the performance earlier, but Eisenheim
neither says he's mistaken or correct.
He invites him to perform for them
at his mansion. As they leave,
Eisenheim says something that only Sophie will
recognize. She looks back at him, shocked.
Josef and Eisenheim gossip
about Sophie marrying Leopold.
Josef adds on by saying Sophie's unlucky because
Leopold allegedly hurts women he’s been with.
Eisenheim receives a letter the
next day. He rides his carriage,
and Sophie secretly enters. He greets her, and
she asks why he didn't say he knew her sooner.
He explains that he did that for the same
reason as to why they had to go through such
secretive means to meet. Until now, Sophie
is yet to receive true freedom. Eisenheim
congratulates her for the upcoming wedding. She
thanks him and says that Leopold is intelligent,
and it would make sense that they marry
because their lives are so intertwined.
She also says that she wished that they
would see each other again, but deep down,
she really wants to say that she hoped
to leave with him back then. They finish
their conversation, and he leaves. In
her hand is the pendant he gave her.
The two could not escape the watchful eyes
that survey the city as Uhl reads a report
about how Sophie and Eisenheim
were seen talking in secret.
A man confronts Eisenheim and leads them to
a restaurant where Uhl eats. Uhl questions
Eisenheim about his relationship with Sophie.
Eisenheim tries to remove any suspicion by
being honest about them being childhood friends.
Uhl accepts his answer, but his doubts persist.
He warns the magician of the crown prince's
power and advises him to stay away from Sophie.
At the royal mansion, Leopold introduces
the magician to the distinguished audience.
He says that what they may see
tonight can seem unexplainable,
but he assures that every
mystery will be deciphered.
Eisenheim starts the performance by drawing
a picture of the emperor, who happens to be
Leopold's father with just a few gestures of
his hand. Leopold stands and begins to explain
what just happened. He pats Eisenheim down,
trying to look for gadgets but fails to do so.
The crowd reacts negatively because of the prince,
so he challenges the magician to
perform tricks without any props.
He asks for the prince’s sword. He
depicts the legend of the sword Excalibur.
Like how it was set in stone, Leopold's sword
stands upright on its own. The crowd is shocked,
and just as how the unworthy cannot pull
Excalibur, he dares anyone to take the sword.
Many tries, but no one prevails. The prince
steps up and cannot lift it just like the others.
The audience laughs at him. He finally pulls
the sword on his second try. Eisenheim deems
him worthy, and the audience gives their
applause. However, Leopold is far from happy.
Leopold leaves the room and instructs inspector
Uhl to put a stop to the magician's business.
On horseback, Sophie rides to the home of
Eisenheim. She comes to inform him of the
prince’s plan to run him off the city. He
argues with her, saying it doesn’t matter
if he leaves. The tension builds up between
the two, and Eisenheim suddenly kisses her.
Eisenheim pins her to the wall and starts to
unbutton her shirt, revealing her pendant. Magic
is truly in the air that night, as he shows her
that tricks aren't the only thing he's good at.
During their pillow talk, they tell stories about
their lives after the night they got separated.
Eisenheim traveled the world
while Sophie stayed sheltered.
She opens up about Leopold's plans to overthrow
his father. He worries about what could happen
to her and suggests that she comes with him
and disappear just as how they planned when
they were young. However, Sophie fears
that Leopold will find and kill them.
Morning comes, Eisenheim sees his ravaged poster
on his way to the theatre. Out of frustration,
Josef berates Eisenheim for provoking the
prince. He doesn't care and asks for his profits.
At the bank, he retrieves all his cash. He
organizes his suitcase and walks down the
streets of the city. He approaches a carriage,
leaves the suitcase, and gets a kiss from
Sophie. A man hiding from afar witnesses all of
this and reports his finding to inspector Uhl.
Uhl arrives at the train station.
He spies on Eisenheim and an old
man talking about the plan to escape with Sophie.
Uhl reports his findings to the prince.
Leopold thanks him, showing no signs of anger.
Sophie marches restlessly in
a room, waiting for Leopold.
He confronts her, being as upfront as possible
with what he knows. She doesn't deny it,
causing Leopold to snap at her, showing the
misogynistic and narcissistic man he is.
Sophie stays calm and says that she will not
marry him. He slaps her and threatens to do
much worse than that if she continues her
behavior. With a calm face, he commands her
to ready her bags for their trip to Budapest.
However, she bids farewell and hurries outside.
Leopold catches up to her and strikes her with
his sword. She rides the horse unconscious.
Eisenheim looks at his clock and
realizes that Sophie is late.
Morning comes, Sophie's horse walks down
the street with her nowhere to be seen.
A man inspects the horse and sees bloodstains.
A group of people searches for the Duchess.
A man sees her floating on the river,
stuck in a tree. Eisenheim jumps in the river,
and there in his arms is a lifeless Sophie.
Uhl inspects Sophie's dead
body. The doctor interrupts him,
saying that he will not stand for the
disrespect he's doing. As he's about to leave,
the doctor informs him about a
gemstone found in Sophie's pockets.
Eisenheim confronts Uhl saying that
they both know the prince killed Sophie.
Uhl defends Leopold and says he can't have killed
her since he's in Budapest. Trying not to cry,
Eisenheim explains that the prince killed
her because she was leaving him. However,
Uhl stands his ground. He asks Eisenheim to stop
accusing the prince or else he'll end up in jail.
Uhl leaves the scene and continues the
investigation. He arrives at the
mansion and looks in the stables.
He sees a shiny object under the hay but doesn't
get the chance to grab it as the crown prince
arrives. The prince asks Uhl if he has a suspect,
remarkably hiding the fact that he killed her.
Eisenheim receives news that the police
have arrested the man who killed Sophie.
However, he's not satisfied and
still thinks Leopold killed her.
Some time passed, and he buys a
rundown theatre, fires his manager,
and completely reimagines his shows.
The day of the reopening came. A packed theatre
watches as the magician sits down and stares at
them intently. He gestures his hand toward a
contraption. A sudden image of a man appears.
A man from the audience communicates
with him. The audience assumes he's
dead and asks him how he got
there and what he knows about
the other side. He doesn't know what
to say, and Eisenheim stops the show.
The show starts to grow more
controversial, and a cult following forms.
The news reaches the crown prince,
but he doesn't show any concern. He
says he's a fake and commands Uhl to find
out how he does his trick and arrest him.
The inspector hypothesizes
that he's using a projector,
but it doesn't replicate the
lifelike movement of the images.
The show attracts more attention as
the apparitions grow more realistic.
Uhl and the guards take Eisenheim to his
office. He asks him how he does his new trick.
Eisenheim reminds the inspector that
a magician never reveals his secrets.
Their conversation gets interrupted by
Uhl's second in command saying that he
should look out the window. A group of
people stands there looking menacingly.
Uhl accuses Eisenheim of planning to
overthrow the prince. Eisenheim says
his plans are far from that. Uhl reminds
him that they already caught the murderer;
however, he says they both know that isn't true.
Eisenheim shows himself to the crowd outside; he
confesses that the apparitions are only tricks. He
isn't able to bring people back from the dead and
apologizes for misleading them. He pleads for them
to go home, and the disappointed crowd follows.
Uhl is satisfied with what happened and lets
him leave. After a while, he reports to Leopold.
What he did disappoints the prince; he scolds
him, calling him an untrustworthy fool.
The prince leaves and plans to put
an end to Eisenheim personally.
Wearing a disguise, he walks through the
town blending in with the commonfolk.
Leopold enters the theatre and
sits to watch Eisenheim perform.
Fittingly, the show features the image of Sophie.
She gazes at Eisenheim, seeming as though she's
real. The audience asks who murdered her, and
Leopold sits anxiously. Sophie announces that
her murder is present among the audience. Multiple
voices from the crowd shout that the crown prince
killed her. Luckily, they're unaware of Leopold’s
presence. Sophie vanishes, and the show ends.
In the carriage, the prince remains
skeptical, saying that the apparition
doesn't even look like Sophie. He accuses
the magician of manipulating the audience,
clearly showing that he's bothered
by what happened. In the next show,
the prince commands that Uhl shall arrest
Eisenheim to make an example out of him.
Uhl meets with Eisenheim. He tells him that he
doesn't want to arrest him; however, he'd have
no other choice but to do so if he continues
with his act. Sophie's death clearly left
Eisenheim broken as he says that he's only doing
this to be with her, even for a short moment.
Guards surround the building. A
familiar face accompanies Eisenheim.
He gives Josef the right to all his
assets, and he agrees without hesitation.
Eisenheim sits in front of a crowd. It's
completely silent as all eyes are on him.
Sophie appears next to him despite
the warnings of Uhl. People from the
audience start accusing the crown prince of
murdering her. Inspector Uhl approaches him,
and guards surround the platform.
He announces that he'll be arresting
Eisenheim. Chaos ensues among the
audience, shouting their disagreement.
When Uhl tries to grab Eisenheim, his hands
go through him. He has turned himself into
an apparition and disappears into thin air. The
guards start to look for him in every corner of
the theatre, but he's nowhere to be found. They
rummage through his home, and there Uhl notices
a book entitled "Orange Tree." He opens it
to see the sketches of Sophie's pendant.
He takes another look and realizes something.
He visits the barn where Sophie was murdered
and finds the pendant underneath the hay.
He figures out how to open it, and he sees the
picture of Eisenheim from before. Beside it, he
sees a gemstone. He receives Leopold's sword, and
there he figures out where the gemstones belong.
He meets with Leopold, and he accuses him of
murdering Sophie. The prince is as arrogant as
ever as he says that Uhl has no right to steal
from his property. However, Uhl informs him that
he has already said everything to the emperor,
including Leopold's plan to overthrow him. As a
final attempt to change Uhl's mind, he says that
Eisenheim has tricked him and that all of this is
planned by him. Uhl stands his ground, saying that
there's a truth behind the magician's illusions.
Feeling desperate, Leopold grabs
his gun and threatens to shoot Uhl.
However, he gets interrupted as he sees officers
sent by the emperor approach the mansion.
Leopold feels helpless and locks all the doors,
hoping that this would buy him enough time to
think of something. He shouts to Uhl that all
his sacrifices will be for nothing, saying
that he only wants the best for the nation.
The banging on the doors triggers him, and with
his finger on the trigger, he shoots himself.
The newly promoted Uhl walks down the
street, and a child approaches him;
he gives him a document that explains the
mechanism behind the orange tree trick.
He looks around and runs after a
man that's obviously in disguise.
It's Eisenheim, well and alive. Uhl arrives at
the train station, barely missing the magician.
Uhl experiences a moment of revelation
as he pieces everything together.
From the beginning, Eisenheim had planned all of
this, meticulously getting every detail right,
ensuring the success of his plan. The gemstones
he grabbed when he borrowed Leopold's sword,
the old man he was talking to who happened to be
the doctor that examined Sophie, and up to the
faking of Sophie's death. Planting all of these
ideas into Uhl's head, making him think that he
got close to the truth, not realizing that the
magician was a step ahead of him the entire time.
Uhl can't help but laugh and clap to the
unbelievable performance he became a part of.
Eisenheim walks through the meadows
to celebrate with Sophie as they've
now fulfilled their promise to disappear together.